 / the root directory.

/bin, is where you'll find binary files or executable files.Programs are written in source code, and this is human readable text.
      These text files are then compiled into machine readable binaries.They are called binaries because machine code is a string of zeros and ones.
      Just know that applications that you can run are sometimes located in /bin.

/etc or etc is where you'll find configuration files.Configuration files control how the operating system or applications behave.
     For example, there's a configuration file in /etc that tells the operating system whether to boot into a text mode or a graphical mode.

/home is where user home directories live.So for example, my home directory would be /home/jason.Linux systems can and often do have
       multiple users or multiple user accounts.And the home directory is where you can separate your data from another account's data.
       You can store anything you want to in your home directory.You could store documents, or music files, or your vacation pictures.

/opt is where optional or third party software lives./opt is for software that is not bundled with the operating system. 
     For example, Google Earth is not part of the standard Linux operating system.
     
     So Google Earth gets installed in /opt.

/tmp is call temp and it's for temporary space.And most Linux distributions clear /tmp at boot time.
     So if you put some files in /tmp and the Linux server gets rebooted or your Linux desktop gets rebooted, your files will be gone.
     Now /tmp is a great place to store temporary files, but do not put anything in /tmp that you want to keep long term.

/usr is called user, and this is where user related programs live.


/var also called var, is for variable data.Think of things that change often.Things that change often on a Linux system are typically log files that are generated
    either by the operating system itself or applications. In Linux we typically talk about directories. 


Shell : program that handles the command we give on terminal. so it is called shell propmts.


commands: 
man : for manual of any command like 'man ls'
      g -- go to top
      G -- go to bottom
      Enter--next line
      spacebar -- go to next page
      q-- quit man
echo : displays contents  for example echo $Path

cat : displays file content

tac : displays file content in reverse order

gzip --help : gives help about the command gzip

ls --help  : gives help about the command ls

man -k 'search term'

which : gives the path of the command 
      example: which ls
      result:  /usr/bin/ls
Commands to navigate between directory:  
1. cd 
2. cd .  :  show current directory
3. cd ..  : parent directory
4. cd -   : goes to previous directory
5. echo $OLDPWD : shows old directory name

Commands to create direcotry

1. mkdir dir1    : create directroy dir1
2. mkdir -p dir2/dir3 : creates parent directory dir2 and then creates dir3
3. rmdir dir1     : removes dir1 as there is no any directory inside dir1
4. rm -rf dir2    : recursively deletes dir3 which is inside dir2 and then deletes dir2

Listing of Files :
1. ls  : lists files and directory
2. ls -a : list all files and directory including hidden one
3. ls -l : list all files and directory with details 
4. ls - a -l or ls -la  : list all files and directory including hidden one in detail mode
5. ls -F   : give details about the files @-- for link /-- for directory *-- for executables
6. ls -t  : sorted by time
7. ls -r  : sorted in reverse order
8. ls -lart : long listing all files in reverse order sorted by time
9. ls -R : list directory and subdirectory in recursive manner
10. tree -d : list directories only
11. tree -c : list files and diectory in color
12. ls -F : classify the directory for link/dierctory/executables
13. ls --color : shows directory and files in diff color
14. ls --Fcolor: color with classification 
15. tree -cd  : alternate of ls -Fcolor

